Heuristic approaches, specifically mathematical heuristic formulas, to solving things are very interesting. Recently, as mentioned on the featured section, I've been working with Professor Brizan and Alex on ETSA, an ABSA project that aims to deliver a novel implementation of ABSA with much more heuristic approaches.

While working on this project, I've run into a conundrum: how do I best create a heuristic equation to model serial position curve? For reference, serial position curve is how humans retain primacy (first impression) and recency (last impression) bias play a large role in how remember certain things. 

While we don't have this yet, in the future, we plan to use a survey to gather ground-truth data on what this serial position curve looks like, and when we do, we reach the given problem of making an equation. One of the major focuses of the project is explainability, thus, I need to develop a formula that is as simple as possible yet retains a certain level of accuracy in calculating the impact of the serial position curve. So how does one do that?

I had a small idea, and I'm not sure yet whether or not it will work, but I just wanted to put the idea out there for future reference (both for myself and anyone who may find this interesting). First of all is to, obviously, use best fit algorithms, however, I was thinking of going in a bit of a different direction. Instead of multi-variable differentiation and optimization which creates an unnecessary amount of variables and is not very human-interpretable, I was thinking of going for an approach that uses a genetic algorithm. Each mutation would go in one of two directions: either add another aspect to the function (like e^x or ln(x)) or change an existing aspect of the function (like replacing e^x with ln(x)). The more aspects, the higher the loss, thus the model is encouraged to find the simplest function for the highest accuracy

However, in this case, more traditional loss methods don't cover all of what we need. While things like MAE are good in theory, they offer grounds for the model being more accurate in one side than the other, which is not good for my purposes, where the model needs to be all-around accuracy. This is why I was thinking to make the loss a mix between MAE and standard deviation throughout difference between all data-points to ensure even and proper loss. 

All of this, though, is just a late-night rambling of a sleep-deprived high schooler (its 11:30 right now and I should really be in bed), and I still need to run it by some people to determine its validity. Doing college-level research, even though I've only being trying it out for a few months, has been a really fun experience, and I'll update the blog more with some new content more frequently. Other than that,

Cheers!