#### Content warning—this discusses sensitive topics relating to violence.

Yesterday, there was a moment where I thought I might die. Well, to be fair, many people thought they might die. This [news article](https://www.kcci.com/article/national-speech-and-debate-tournament-des-moines-iowa-emc-expo-center-evacuated/65116712) explains the gist of the situation, but it doesn't do it well.

Essentially what happened was (objectively): during the National Speech and Debate Tournament, an individual walked on stage, causing a mass panic that led to a stampede out of the building, injuring many people in the process.

Subjectively, it was... scary. We saw this person getting up on stage, and we were all confused as to why he was there. He shouted something along the lines of "That sh*t is not funny!" (in reference to my teammate who made it to the final round and gave the speech right before he jumped the stage". Then he said: "Do you want to see something really funny?" and began to take off his backpack. Then, he said, "Knock knock!" (also in reference to a knock-knock joke from my teammate). At that moment, we all knew something was wrong. It was akin to watching the Joker preparing to do something devious. I thought it was a bomb, my friends thought it was a gun, someone shouted "Everyone run", and everyone ran. At the moment, all I remember was trying to get to the exit as fast as possible. I had dropped everything and I lost my friends along the way. We were lucky that we sat in the back row—we were able to get out relatively fast. I ran for a solid half a mile away from that building and ended up meeting these two very nice debaters from Virginia, who I ended up hanging out with since I didn't know any of my teammates' phone numbers.

It was only when I called my parents that what had just happened settled in. It's an odd feeling—we were just joking around about the situation earlier, but hearing it from an outside perspective made me realize just how scary it had been.

As a side not, it turned out that the man had no weapons on him and was likely very, very high, but it doesn't discount the tens of people he inadvertently injured and hundreds if not thousands of people he traumatized.

I'd say that I took the entire situation pretty well. After all, years of doing circuit policy debate have prepared me for stress levels even worse than life-threatening situations ;D (on a real note though, my hands were shaking right after the thing happened, but they weren't shaking as bad as during a circuit policy round lol). But many of my friends were traumatized by it and my coach was injured. I remember hearing from my best friend and policy partner that one girl on our team burst into tears after she rounded a corner and got spooked by another one of our teammates who was walking in the opposite direction.

In a nutshell, it was scary. But I'm glad we all made it out relatively unscathed, 

I am honestly not sure what this experience taught me about myself and my own mortality. Does my lack of a proper reaction mean that I view my own life in short value, does it mean I have a strong mentality, does it mean I didn't think I would truly die, or did the adrenaline just mask it all? Does the fact that I'm making jokes mean that I'm just coping through humor? I don't know, but I hope to find out soon.

But I did learn something about organizations. No matter the organizations, they are all horrible at handling these incidents. NSDA ended up lying about the entire situation, saying that the building was "evacuated" (people were literally stampeding out) and that "nobody was hurt" (people were literally getting trampled on, with some even getting stepped on). It was a miracle that nobody died, and I call on all organizations to: 1. do better and 2. take accountability. I don't run these tournaments so I don't know how hard it would be, but after yesterday, I hope NSDA learned their lesson. To an organization that is all about the voices of students, as wonderfully put by an Instagram comment I saw: "Can you hear the screams now?"